README.md, before:

# dum-dum-irc

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/thegamecracks/dum-dum-irc/pyright-lint.yml?style=flat-square&label=pyright)](https://microsoft.github.io/pyright/#/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/thegamecracks/dum-dum-irc/python-test.yml?style=flat-square&logo=pytest&label=tests)](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/)

A handcrafted implementation of an internet relay chat without following
any conventions or RFC standards.

![Two client windows side-by-side](/docs/images/demo.png)

## Usage

With Python 3.11+ and Git installed, you can run the following:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/thegamecracks/dum-dum-irc@v0.2.1
```

Once installed, the `dumdum` and `dumdum-server` entry points should be
provided. Run `dumdum-server --help` for options.

## Implementation

Dumdum consists of two parts:

1. The Sans-IO protocol, defined in [dumdum.protocol]
2. The asyncio wrapper, defined in [dumdum.client] and [dumdum.server]

The [Sans-IO] protocol is responsible for handling the generation and
consumption of byte streams, along with producing events from received
messages, while the asyncio wrapper is responsible for the actual network
communication between the server and its clients.

[Sans-IO]: https://sans-io.readthedocs.io/

[dumdum.protocol]: /src/dumdum/protocol/
[dumdum.client]: /src/dumdum/client/
[dumdum.server]: /src/dumdum/server.py

## Protocol

Clients are able to send the following messages:

1. HELLO: `0x00`
2. AUTHENTICATE: `0x02 | 1-byte version | varchar nickname (32)`
3. SEND_MESSAGE: `0x03 | varchar channel name (32) | varchar content (1024)`
4. LIST_CHANNELS: `0x04`
5. LIST_MESSAGES: `0x05 | 8-byte before snowflake or 0 | 8-byte after snowflake or 0`

Servers are able to send the following messages:

1. HELLO: `0x00 | 0 or 1 using SSL`
2. INCOMPATIBLE_VERSION: `0x01 | 1-byte version`
3. ACKNOWLEDGE_AUTHENTICATION: `0x02 | 0 or 1 success`
4. SEND_MESSAGE: `0x03 | 8-byte snowflake | varchar channel name (32) | varchar nickname (32) | varchar content (1024)`
5. LIST_CHANNELS: `0x04 | 2-byte length | varchar channel name (32) | ...`
6. LIST_MESSAGES: `0x05 | 3-byte length | same fields after SEND_MESSAGE | ...`

Clients must send a HELLO command and wait for the server to respond with HELLO.
Afterwards the client must send an AUTHENTICATE command and wait for a successful
ACKNOWLEDGE_AUTHENTICATION before they can begin chat communications.

When the client disconnects and reconnects, they MUST re-send hello
and re-authenticate with the server.

As this protocol has been intentionally designed to be simple (no timeouts
or keep alives), I/O wrappers do not need a significant amount of work to
implement it.

## TLS Encryption

Independent of the Dumdum protocol, `dumdum-server` can use SSL certificates
to encrypt connections. For example, if you want to use a self-signed certificate
and private key, you can install OpenSSL and run the following command:

```sh
openssl req -new -x509 -days 365 -nodes -out dumdum.crt -keyout dumdum.key
```

After filling out (or skipping) the certificate signing request prompts,
you can then run the server with the resulting `cert.pem` file:

```sh
dumdum-server --cert dumdum.crt:dumdum.key
```

As for the `dumdum` client, SSL can be enabled by the user before connecting
to a server, but they must know beforehand if the server is also using SSL,
otherwise the client may not behave properly.
If the server uses a self-signed certificate, the user will need to download
the server's certificate (.crt) and select it.

Commit message:

feat: upgrade connections to TLS based on hello

README.md, after:

# dum-dum-irc

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/thegamecracks/dum-dum-irc/pyright-lint.yml?style=flat-square&label=pyright)](https://microsoft.github.io/pyright/#/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/thegamecracks/dum-dum-irc/python-test.yml?style=flat-square&logo=pytest&label=tests)](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/)

A handcrafted implementation of an internet relay chat without following
any conventions or RFC standards.

![Two client windows side-by-side](/docs/images/demo.png)

## Usage

With Python 3.11+ and Git installed, you can run the following:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/thegamecracks/dum-dum-irc@v0.2.1
```

Once installed, the `dumdum` and `dumdum-server` entry points should be
provided. Run `dumdum-server --help` for options.

## Implementation

Dumdum consists of two parts:

1. The Sans-IO protocol, defined in [dumdum.protocol]
2. The asyncio wrapper, defined in [dumdum.client] and [dumdum.server]

The [Sans-IO] protocol is responsible for handling the generation and
consumption of byte streams, along with producing events from received
messages, while the asyncio wrapper is responsible for the actual network
communication between the server and its clients.

[Sans-IO]: https://sans-io.readthedocs.io/

[dumdum.protocol]: /src/dumdum/protocol/
[dumdum.client]: /src/dumdum/client/
[dumdum.server]: /src/dumdum/server.py

## Protocol

Clients are able to send the following messages:

1. HELLO: `0x00`
2. AUTHENTICATE: `0x02 | 1-byte version | varchar nickname (32)`
3. SEND_MESSAGE: `0x03 | varchar channel name (32) | varchar content (1024)`
4. LIST_CHANNELS: `0x04`
5. LIST_MESSAGES: `0x05 | 8-byte before snowflake or 0 | 8-byte after snowflake or 0`

Servers are able to send the following messages:

1. HELLO: `0x00 | 0 or 1 using SSL`
2. INCOMPATIBLE_VERSION: `0x01 | 1-byte version`
3. ACKNOWLEDGE_AUTHENTICATION: `0x02 | 0 or 1 success`
4. SEND_MESSAGE: `0x03 | 8-byte snowflake | varchar channel name (32) | varchar nickname (32) | varchar content (1024)`
5. LIST_CHANNELS: `0x04 | 2-byte length | varchar channel name (32) | ...`
6. LIST_MESSAGES: `0x05 | 3-byte length | same fields after SEND_MESSAGE | ...`

Clients must send a HELLO command and wait for the server to respond with HELLO.
Afterwards the client must send an AUTHENTICATE command and wait for a successful
ACKNOWLEDGE_AUTHENTICATION before they can begin chat communications.

When the client disconnects and reconnects, they MUST re-send hello
and re-authenticate with the server.

If the server supports SSL, they can set `using SSL` in HELLO to indicate
that the client should upgrade the connection to SSL.
At this point, the protocol should not receive any data until after the
SSL handshake is complete.

As this protocol has been intentionally designed to be simple (no timeouts
or keep alives), I/O wrappers do not need a significant amount of work to
implement it.

## TLS Encryption

`dumdum-server` can use SSL certificates to encrypt connections.
For example, if you want to use a self-signed certificate and private key,
you can install OpenSSL and run the following command:

```sh
openssl req -new -x509 -days 365 -nodes -out dumdum.crt -keyout dumdum.key
```

After filling out (or skipping) the certificate signing request prompts,
you can then run the server with the resulting `cert.pem` file:

```sh
dumdum-server --cert dumdum.crt:dumdum.key
```

As for the `dumdum` client, SSL can be enabled by the user before connecting
to a server. If the server uses a self-signed certificate, the user will need
to download the server's certificate (.crt) and select it.
